{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12160\viewh11440\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 RV-TDT
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf0 TDT-CMC
\f0\i0 \
\
There are a few rare situations where phasing is required for the TDT- CMC, because each informative parent can only contribute a score of 1, for example, if the proband, mother, and father are all hetero- zygous at the same rare-variant site and the mother is heterozy- gous at an additional rare variant site. \
\
In this situation, if both of the mother\'92s rare variants are on the same haplotype, then she is scored 1 for a major-allele-transmitted event (quadrant b) and the father is scored 1 for a minor-allele-transmitted event (quadrant c). \
\
On the other hand, if the mother\'92s rare variants are on different haplotypes, she is scored 1/2 for a major-allele-trans- mitted event (quadrant b) and 1/2 for a minor-allele-transmitted event (quadrant c), whereas the father is scored 1 for a major- allele-transmitted event (quadrant b).\
\
Therefore, for the applica- tion of the TDT-CMC, haplotypes must be phased.\
\
=\
\

\f2\i TDT-BRV
\f0\i0 \
\
Because each site within an informative region can be counted independently of the other sites, it is not necessary to phase the data before performing the TDT-BRV, when analytical p values are obtained. However to control type I errors in the presence of LD, empirical p values should be estimated via haplotype permu- tation, which requires phasing the trio data.\
\
=\
\
\

\f2\i TDT-WSS
\f0\i0 \
\
Because internal information is applied to obtain the weights, p values must be obtained empirically by using permutation to avoid spurious associations.\
\
=\
\
TDT-VT\
\
For the TDT-VT, the test statistic is maximized over allele fre- quencies and therefore a variable allele frequency threshold is applied, instead of a fixed MAF cut-off. The TDT-VT can be imple- mented by using either the TDT-CMC or TDT-BRV coding. The TDT-VT avoids the implicit assumption about the relationship between allele frequency and odds ratio. Because the test statistic is maximized over allele frequencies, to correct for multiple testing, p values must be obtained empirically.\
We also compared the power of the RV-TDT methods to FB- SKAT. FB-SKAT is an extension of the family-based association test (FBAT) to detect rare-variant associations by using a variance component test. More details about this method can be found in Ionita-Laza et al.21In}